---
title: How to Bundle a Simple React Application Using esbuild
subtitle: ''
author: valentine Gatwiri
co_authors: []
series: null
date: '2023-08-22T20:56:13.000Z'
originalURL: https://freecodecamp.org/news/bundle-a-basic-react-application-using-esbuild
coverImage: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/content/images/2023/08/Screenshot-from-2023-08-21-16-04-04.png
tags:
- name: Bundler
  slug: bundler
- name: JavaScript
  slug: javascript
- name: React
  slug: react
- name: web performance
  slug: web-performance
seo_title: null
seo_desc: Bundling is an important phase in the web development process, particularly
  when dealing with JavaScript frameworks like React. It entails combining all the
  various JavaScript files and dependencies into a single file for faster browser
  loading and e...
---

Bundling is an important phase in the web development process, particularly when dealing with JavaScript frameworks like React. It entails combining all the various JavaScript files and dependencies into a single file for faster browser loading and execution. 

esbuild is a lightweight and efficient bundler for React apps. Here's an overview of how to use esbuild to bundle a basic React application.

## How to Install esbuild Globally

We'll start by installing esbuild globally in your system by running `npm install -g esbuild` in the command line. This will install the latest version of esbuild globally on your system. 

After installation, you can access esbuild from the command line by typing `esbuild`.

## How to Create a New Directory for Your React Application

To create a new directory for your React application, open the terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to create the new directory. Then run the following command:

```bash
mkdir my-react-app
```

This will create a new directory named `my-react-app`. You can replace it with whatever name you want to give your React application directory.

After creating the directory, navigate into it by running:

```bash
cd my-react-app
```

Initialize a new `npm` project by running the following command and following the prompts:

```bash
npm init -y
```

Install React and React DOM by running `npm install react react-dom` in the terminal. This will install the latest versions of React and React DOM in your project, along with any required dependencies.

## How to Create the Necessary Files and Folders

Let's create the necessary files and folders. Here's a basic structure:

```
my-react-app
├── src
|   |
│   |── index.js
├── |--- index.html
│  
└── package.json

```

  
Add the code shown below in your app, following the above structure:

**index.html**:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no">
  <title>Hello, esbuild!</title>
</head>

<body>
  <div id="root"></div>
  <script src="Bundle.js"></script>
</body>

</html
```

The above code outlines the fundamental structure of an HTML5 web page. It starts with a declaration indicating the use of HTML5. The main structure consists of an `<html>` root element containing a `<head>` section for metadata, including character encoding and viewport settings for responsiveness.

 The `<title>` element defines the browser tab's title, while the actual content resides in the `<body>` element. Within the `<body>`, a `<div>` element with the id "root" serves as a placeholder for potential dynamic content. 

Additionally, there's a `<script>` tag pointing to an external JavaScript file named "Bundle.js," generated by esbuild, to be executed by the browser. 

This structure sets the foundation for building a web page with HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript functionality.

**index.js**

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

function App() {
  return (
    <div>Hello, esbuild! </div>
  );
}

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById("root"));
```

Our React code sets up a simple React application with a single component App. It renders a `<div>` element with the text `Hello, esbuild!` and mounts it into the DOM, specifically into the element with the `id` of `root`.

## How to Create the Build Function

Let's add the following build script using the `esbuild` bundler in our `package.json` file:

```json
"scripts": {
        "build": "esbuild src/index.js --bundle --outfile=Bundle.js --loader:.js=jsx --format=cjs"
},

```

This build script starts with the entry point `src/index.js` and proceeds to bundle all the dependencies. The resulting bundled code is saved as `Bundle.js`. 

The script also specifies that files with the `.js` extension should be treated as `jsx` files, indicating the usage of JSX syntax.

Finally, the output format is set to `CommonJS (cjs)` which is the module system utilized by Node.js. 

By executing this build script, the `esbuild` bundler will process the files, apply the necessary transformations, and generate a single bundled JavaScript file ready for deployment or further usage.

### Overview of the Build Function and its Purpose

The build script using esbuild is JavaScript code that bundles your JavaScript code into a single file. This is useful for optimizing your code for production environments, reducing the number of HTTP requests needed to load your application, and improving load times.

The build method takes an `options` object as its argument, which allows you to configure how your code is bundled. The options object specifies properties such as `entryPoints`, `outfile`, `format`, `bundle`, and `loader`.

Once the build method is configured with the desired options, the build function is called, which triggers the build process. This will output a single bundled file containing all of your JavaScript code.

Finally, the build script is run by executing the script using Node.js. You can do this by updating the `package.json` file to include a script that runs the build script, as shown above.

Build the React app using the following command:

```bash
npm run build
```

  
Then run the app using this command:

```bash
npx http-server
```

## Conclusion

By following these steps, you can bundle your basic React application using esbuild and have it ready for deployment or further usage. Here is the [demo.](https://github.com/gatwirival/esbuild-bundling-demo.git)

Happy coding!

