---
title: How to Install Flask in a Virtual Environment
subtitle: ''
author: freeCodeCamp
co_authors: []
series: null
date: '2020-01-12T21:19:00.000Z'
originalURL: https://freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-install-flask-in-a-virtual-environment
coverImage: https://cdn-media-2.freecodecamp.org/w1280/5f9c9df1740569d1a4ca3a83.jpg
tags:
- name: Flask Framework
  slug: flask
- name: Python
  slug: python
- name: toothbrush
  slug: toothbrush
seo_title: null
seo_desc: "If you wish to use Flask, you are in the right place! This guide will teach\
  \ you how to install Flask if you want to explore web development with it. \nJust\
  \ keep in mind that Flask might not always be the best choice – it gets difficult\
  \ to build large ..."
---

If you wish to use Flask, you are in the right place! This guide will teach you how to install Flask if you want to explore web development with it. 

Just keep in mind that Flask might not always be the best choice – it gets difficult to build large web-applications with it if you are new to web development in Python. Perhaps check out Django as another option.

Flask is a micro-framework and you can pick the functionality you wish to have over the basic barebones functionality you already have from a standard web-framework. 

**First make sure you've installed Python 3** and are using it inside a virtual environment.

Also, make sure that you are not inside a virtual environment already. Then create a new virtual environment, named `py3-flask`

```text
$ mkvirtualenv py3-flask --python=/usr/bin/python3
```

Now, execute the `workon` command to see a list of virtual environments in your machine. This should list `py3-flask` in a line.

After this, activate this environment:

```text
$ workon py3-flask
```

Your virtual environment will be activated with a copy of Python interpreter, with Python 3 properties. You should run

```text
$ python --version
```

to ensure that you are indeed inside a Python 3 environment.

Just to be clear, if you have already installed Django or some other framework, it should **not** be in this environment. We are using a virtual environment to keep our installation of different frameworks separated.

To be sure, run

```text
pip freeze
```

Make sure Django is not listed in the output list generated by above command.

Now, let’s install Flask. If you want to learn more, here’s the [official installation guide](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/installation/). However, a lot of developers prefer installing some extra packages with Flask for more functionality.

To install just Flask, execute

```text
$ pip install flask
```

When you run `pip freeze` again, it should show you `Flask` in listed packages.

It is cumbersome running long commands like this. Fortunately, there is something like `package.json` in the Python domain as well - a list of dependencies, which the package manager can use to duplicate the environment by downloading them with the proper version from the central repo.

The standard is to use `pip freeze` and log the output to a local file, which can be source controlled.

```text
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

Here’s the content of `requirements.txt` from my environment, after installing those Flask packages. You may add or remove more packages as your application grows. But for now, just copy and paste the content of the following in a text file in the same directory as you are in.

```text
Babel==2.2.0
Flask==0.10.1
Flask-Babel==0.9
Flask-Login==0.3.2
Flask-Mail==0.9.1
Flask-OpenID==1.2.5
Flask-SQLAlchemy==2.1
Flask-WTF==0.12
Flask-WhooshAlchemy==0.56
Jinja2==2.8
MarkupSafe==0.23
SQLAlchemy==1.0.12
Tempita==0.5.2
WTForms==2.1
Werkzeug==0.11.4
Whoosh==2.7.2
blinker==1.4
coverage==4.0.3
decorator==4.0.9
defusedxml==0.4.1
flipflop==1.0
guess-language==0.2
itsdangerous==0.24
pbr==1.8.1
python3-openid==3.0.9
pytz==2015.7
six==1.10.0
speaklater==1.3
sqlalchemy-migrate==0.10.0
sqlparse==0.1.18
```

This list of packages are taken from [here](http://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/the-flask-mega-tutorial-part-i-hello-world).

Once you have saved the file, just run

```text
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The package manager will take care of installing the missing packages for you! And you should commit this file with your source control system.

The above set of commands assumes that you have a Linux machine or Mac OSX machine. Or that you are using a cloud-hosted box on cloud9 or Nitrous, or maybe you are using a Vagrant box.

But, if you have to use a Windows machine, do consider using Windows Powershell, instead of Windows CMD. Most of the commands will be same. In case you need any assistance, you might want to check out [this Stack Overflow discussion](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17917254/how-to-install-flask-on-windows).

